MOMENTUM
A personal Mac workspace for habits, goals, and business projects.

INSTALL THE MAC DESKTOP APP
1. Extract the entire Momentum-Mac.zip file.
2. Open the Momentum folder and double-click Install-Momentum.command.
3. The installer builds Momentum for your Mac and opens it.
4. Keep its Dock icon: right-click the icon > Options > Keep in Dock.

Requires macOS 13 or later and Apple's Swift compiler (included with Xcode
or the free Command Line Tools). The installer uses an existing installation.
If those tools are missing, it explains the one-time installation step:
  xcode-select --install
Finish Apple's installation, then run Install-Momentum.command again.
No npm, Python, paid Apple developer account, or App Store submission is needed.

If Finder doesn't launch the installer:
Open Terminal, type "bash " (with a space, without quotes), drag
Install-Momentum.command into the Terminal window, and press Return.
This runs the included installer. Keep Resources and Native beside it.

The application is installed in your home folder's Applications folder:
  ~/Applications/Momentum.app
The first build may take a minute or two, depending on your Mac.

TRY THE INTERFACE IMMEDIATELY
Open Try-Momentum.html in Safari or Chrome. This is a browser preview of
the same interface, separate from the native desktop app.
Its data stays in that browser; export a backup and import it into the Mac
app if you want to transfer any work. Settings > Explore demo workspace
shows temporary sample content without replacing your own workspace.
The actual workspace starts empty. There are no invented accomplishments.

WHAT YOU CAN DO
- Habits: add a daily or selected-weekday habit, choose its starting date,
  check off scheduled days, correct past check-ins, view streaks and
  28-day history, add/edit dated notes, archive or delete habits.
- Personal goals: choose a numerical target and unit, set a deadline,
  update the current total, and keep a dated progress journal.
- Projects: create as many independent projects as you need; select one
  to add/edit/delete steps, choose priorities and deadlines, move steps
  through To do / In progress / Complete, and write project updates.
- Overview: habit completion, percentage of goals accomplished, project
  completion percentage, weekly consistency, progress days, next steps,
  and straightforward insights calculated from your actual entries.
- Search: find items using their names, descriptions, steps, or notes.
- Activity: see a dated record of changes.

SAVING AND BACKUPS
The desktop app saves each change to:
  ~/Library/Application Support/Momentum/workspace.json
Before the first change each day, it keeps the existing workspace in:
  ~/Library/Application Support/Momentum/Backups/
The newest 30 daily snapshots are retained. Exported backups are not deleted.

Settings & backup > Export backup creates a portable JSON file.
Settings & backup > Import backup restores a file after confirmation,
replacing the current workspace. Export your current data first.
File > Show Data Folder opens the data folder in Finder.
Data is local to this Mac, with no cloud sync or account required.
Deleting the app does not delete the separate workspace data.

HOW METRICS WORK
Habit consistency = checked-off scheduled days / scheduled days in the
selected period. Days before creation, rest days, and dates from the
archive date onward are excluded. Today counts and is still in progress.
A dash means there are no eligible entries, not a failed goal.

A streak counts consecutive completed scheduled days. Rest days and an
unfinished today do not break it. An earlier missed scheduled day does.
To change repeat days, archive a habit and create a new one. Restoring an
archived habit creates a fresh habit; the old history remains archived.

Goal progress = current total / target, capped at 100%. Goal accomplished
means current total is at least the target. Updates use a NEW TOTAL,
not an increment. Corrections can reduce the current total.

Project completion = completed steps / all steps in unarchived projects.
Each step has equal weight. Editing, reopening, or deleting a step
changes the current metrics. Notes don't count as completed steps.

Progress days count days with a habit check-in, a currently completed
project step, or a positive goal update. A day is counted only once.
Project-only progress days count days with a currently completed step.
These are current-record metrics: deleting a record can change history.
The activity log retains its earlier text entries when an item is deleted.

SHORTCUTS
Command-N: create an item for the current section.
Command-K: focus search.
Command-Shift-E: export backup (desktop app).
Command-Shift-I: import backup (desktop app).
Command-Q: quit the desktop app.
Escape: dismiss a dialog.

BUILD STATUS
For the newer portfolio verification, see docs/verification.md. The results
below describe the original package and are retained as historical context.

Launcher fix: uses an explicit main-actor entry point, paired with the
compiler flag -parse-as-library. The invalid empty selector was removed.
This package contains the implementation and an installer that builds it
locally. It does NOT contain a precompiled or notarized Mac executable.
15 automated calculation and application-handler tests passed in Linux.
JavaScript syntax and installer shell syntax were checked.
The actual macOS build, native file dialogs, launch behavior, and visual
layout could not be run in this environment. Treat this as a first build
for testing on your Mac. If the installer shows an error, copy the error
message back into the conversation so it can be fixed.

SOURCE
Resources/       Interface, styles, application handlers, and metrics.
Native/          macOS launcher, application metadata, and icon.
Tests/           Automated logic and handler tests (Node.js).
Install-Momentum.command   Build and installation script.
Try-Momentum.html          Self-contained offline browser preview.

Developer check: node --test Tests/*.test.cjs
No third-party runtime libraries are required by the application.
Native interface foundation: Apple's WKWebView and AppKit.
Apple reference: https://developer.apple.com/videos/play/wwdc2021/10032/
